---
draft: false
---
Sciences transform perceptions from our mind to abstract mathematical constructions which describe features of the very concrete world. How can we give foundations to such a complex process taking place on the boundaries of mind, world and Hyperuranion? In this tutorial we will, hand in hand, let van Fraassen show us his thought from _"Scientific Representation: Paradoxes of Perspective"_, in particular focussing on the _Part III: Structure and Perspective_ in which we will read the significance of Structuralism and some of its variations. Several epistemological questions will emerge, in particular: can we phrase our perception in only structural terms? For instance, if any colour would instantly change but the relations between them and any other object remain the same, would something have changed? If nothing changed in our perceptions, would something change in the world?

After an introductory presentation on structuralism and previous crucial passages of the book, we will read 10 to 15 pages per week of the _Part III: Structure and Perspective_ which will take about the first half of the course. After that I will let the fellow students choose whether they prefer to pursue with the book into the _IV Part: Appearance and Reality_ or to give a look into other literature on the same theme, like other chapters or sections of the same book, of _The Scientific Image_ (also by van Fraassen) or other articles discussing the same matter under different perspectives. A full list of those alternatives will be published here by March.

#### My Background
I am a student in my last semester of both BSc. Mathematics and BA Philosophy (for more see [[Curriculum_Vitae.pdf]]) and the topic of this tutorial will be crucial for my [[Philosophy Thesis]] (in particular see [[Structuralism]]). I already wrote on this topic in [[On Models and Worlds]] and in the comment to [[Horsten, L. (2010), Having an Interpretation]]. I also plan to write [[Categorical Equivalence in Structuralism]] and [[Unobservables in Structuralism]] respectively for the courses _Category Theory for the Working Philosopher_ and _Introduction to Philosophy of Physics_.