I'm following this course by Vincent Bagayoko on #Model_Theory at the #UniKonstanz during the #2nd_Semester. A recap of the material relevant for the exam follows.

### Briefly, Theorems and Defs.
- **Def. Filter**: (i) $\emptyset \not \in \mathcal{F}, I \in \mathcal{F}$, (ii) Closed under $\cap$ (iii) Closed under supersets in $I$
	- **Principal Filter**: If $x \in I$ then $\mathcal{F}$ is generated by $x$, if $x$ is a singleton, then $\mathcal{F}$ is ultra
	- **Fréchet Filter**: $F = \{A \subseteq I | I \setminus A \text{ is finite}\}$ 
	- **Free Filter**: Contains a Fréchet filter
	- **Ultrafilter**: (i) $\forall_{A,C \subseteq I} A \cup B \in \mathcal{F} \Rightarrow A \in \mathcal{F}$ or $B \in \mathcal{F}$ (prime filter on $\cup$) or (ii) is a maximal filer
	- **FIP**: If the intersection over any finite subcollection of $I$ is non empty
	- **Creation of a Filter**:  If $\mathcal{A} \subset \mathcal{P}(I)$ has the FIP, then there is a filter $\mathcal{F}$ on $I$ with $\mathcal{A} \subseteq \mathcal{F}$
	- **Extension of a Filter**:  $\mathcal{F} \cup \{A\}$ is contained is a filter on $I$.
	- **Ultraproducts**: $\prod_{i \in I} \mathcal{M}_i / \mathcal{U}$
		- **Łos Theorem**: $\prod_{i \in I} \mathcal{M}_i / \mathcal{U} \models \phi (m_1,…,m_n) \Leftrightarrow  \{i \in I:M_i \models \phi (m_{1,i},…,m_{n,i})\} \in \mathcal{U}$.
	- **Ultrapower**:  $\prod_{i \in I} \mathcal{M} / \mathcal{U}$
- **Embedding**:(i) constants (ii) functions (iii) relations but *only injective for the variables*
	- **I. Type**: $p$ is a $n$-type of $Th(\mathcal{M})$ $\Leftrightarrow$ e.ext. $\mathcal{N}$ of $\mathcal{M}$ s.t. $\exists_{b \in N} \mathcal{N} \models p(b)$ $\Leftrightarrow$ $\forall_{p_0 \subset p} \exists_{b \in M} \mathcal{M} \models p_0(b)$
	- **II. Type**: $tp^\mathcal{M}(a)$ is the complete type of $a$ in $\mathcal{M}$
	- **Elementary Embedding**: $\mathcal{M} \models_h \phi \Leftrightarrow \mathcal{N} \models_{\tau \circ h} \phi$
	- **Elementary Equivalence**, $\equiv$**: $\mathcal{M} \models \phi \Leftrightarrow \mathcal{N} \models \phi$
	- Elementary Extension**: $\mathcal{M} \subseteq \mathcal{N}$ s.t. for all $\bar{a} \in \bigcup_{n \in \omega}M^n$, $tp^{\mathcal{M}}(\bar{a}) = tp^{\mathcal{N}}(\bar{a})$.
	- **Substructure**: $N \subseteq M$, $\mathcal{N}$ closed and same outputs on everything $\mathcal{M}$ has.
	- **Elementary Substructure**: $\mathcal{M} \models \phi \Leftrightarrow \mathcal{N} \models \phi$ and $\mathcal{N}$ substr. of $\mathcal{M}$
		- **E. Emb $\Rightarrow$ E. Eq** p. 72
	- **Compactness Theorem**: Any finite subset of $T$ is consistent $\Leftrightarrow$ $T$ is consistent.
	- **Corr. to Comp.** If $\Gamma \models \phi$ then there is a finite $\Gamma_0$ s.t. $\Gamma_0 \models \phi$.
	- **Löwenheim-Skolem Theorem**: Inf. $\mathcal{M}$, inf. $k$, then there is an E. Ex. or E. Sub. $|\mathcal{N}| = k$.
	- **Definable Choice**: $\mathcal{M}$ has def. choice over $A$ if for every form. with param. in $A$ $\phi(v_0, ..., v_n)$ there is a *partial func.* (not def on all $M^n$) $f: M^n \rightarrow M$, $\mathcal{M} \models \phi(m_0, ..., m_{n - 1}, f(m_0, ..., m_{n- 1}))$
- **Quantifier Elimination**: For $\phi \in \mathcal{L}$ there is $\psi \in \mathcal{L}$ w.q., s.t. $T \models \psi \leftrightarrow \phi$ and with $FV(\phi) = FV(\psi)$
	- **QE $\Rightarrow$ Model Completeness**: For every str. s.t. $\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{N} \models T$: $\mathcal{M} \subseteq \mathcal{N}\Rightarrow \mathcal{M} \preceq \mathcal{N}$.
	- **T.-V. test**: $\mathcal{N} \preceq \mathcal{M} \Leftrightarrow \forall_{\phi(c, y_1, ..., y_n)}\forall_{b_1, ..., b_n \in N}\mathcal{M} \models \exists_x \phi(x, b_1, ..., b_n) \rightarrow \exists_{a \in N} \mathcal{M} \models \phi(a, b_1, ..., b_n)$.
	- **QE $\Rightarrow$ Def. Sets without Quantifiers are all Def. Sets.**
	- **1. Criterion for QE**, $T$ has QE $\Leftrightarrow$ If $\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{N} \models T$, $\mathcal{A} \subseteq \mathcal{M}, \mathcal{N}$: for $\bar{a} \in A^n$, $\mathcal{M} \models \phi(\bar{a}) \Leftrightarrow \mathcal{N} \models \phi(\bar{a})$.
	- **2. Criterion for QE**: Just prove you can eliminate $\exists$.
	- **O-minimality on $\mathcal{M}$**: Every definable subset $X \subseteq M$ is a finite union of intervals and points.
	- **O-min** $\Leftrightarrow \mathcal{M} \models \phi(v_0) \leftrightarrow \psi(v_0)$ where $\psi(v_0) \in \mathcal{L}_<$... true?
	- **O- min on $T$**: Every model of $T$ has O-min
	- **$T$ complete** $\Rightarrow$ just one O-min str. needed
	- **Use QE for O-min**: QE $\land$ Sets def. by atomic $\phi(v_0)$ are finite unions of intervals $\Rightarrow$ O-min.
	- We [know](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantifier_elimination): [abelian groups](https://mathoverflow.net/questions/402099/quantifier-elimination-for-abelian-groups#:~:text=Abelian%20groups%20are%20the%20same,called%20Baur%E2%80%93Monk%20invariants), [DLO](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/3229235/questions-regarding-the-proof-of-quantifier-elimination-of-dlo), algebraically closed fields, real closed fields are **QE**
	- We [know](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O-minimal_theory): DLO in $\mathcal{L}_>$, real closed fields are **o-min**
	- **RCF**: $\mathbb{F}[i]$ is ACF $\Leftrightarrow$ $\mathbb{F} \equiv \mathbb{R}$
- **Categoricity**: $T$ is $k$-cat. iff any two models of $T$ of card, $k$ are isomorphic.
- **Vaught's test**: if all $\mathcal{M} \models T \Rightarrow |\mathcal{M}|  \ge \aleph_0$, $k \ge max(|\mathcal{L}|,\aleph_0)$ and $T$ is $k$-cat. then $T$ is complete.